docs/docs/integrations/document_loaders/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_class_name: hidden
---

# Document loaders

import { CategoryTable, IndexTable } from "@theme/FeatureTables";

DocumentLoaders load data into the standard LangChain Document format.

Each DocumentLoader has its own specific parameters, but they can all be invoked in the same way with the .load method.
An example use case is as follows:

```python
from langchain_community.document_loaders.csv_loader import CSVLoader

loader = CSVLoader(
    ...  # <-- Integration specific parameters here
)
data = loader.load()
```

## Webpages

The below document loaders allow you to load webpages.

<CategoryTable category="webpage_loaders" />

## PDFs

The below document loaders allow you to load PDF documents.

<CategoryTable category="pdf_loaders" />

## Cloud Providers

The below document loaders allow you to load documents from your favorite cloud providers.

<CategoryTable category="cloud_provider_loaders"/>

## Social Platforms

The below document loaders allow you to load documents from differnt social media platforms.

<CategoryTable category="social_loaders"/>

## Messaging Services

The below document loaders allow you to load data from different messaging platforms.

<CategoryTable category="messaging_loaders"/>

## Productivity tools

The below document loaders allow you to load data from commonly used productivity tools.

<CategoryTable category="productivity_loaders"/>

## Common File Types

The below document loaders allow you to load data from common data formats.

<CategoryTable category="common_loaders" />


## All document loaders

<IndexTable />

Commit message:

reference guide in integrations landing page

docs/docs/integrations/document_loaders/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_class_name: hidden
---

# Document loaders

import { CategoryTable, IndexTable } from "@theme/FeatureTables";

DocumentLoaders load data into the standard LangChain Document format.

Each DocumentLoader has its own specific parameters, but they can all be invoked in the same way with the .load method.
An example use case is as follows:

```python
from langchain_community.document_loaders.csv_loader import CSVLoader

loader = CSVLoader(
    ...  # <-- Integration specific parameters here
)
data = loader.load()
```

## Webpages

The below document loaders allow you to load webpages.

<CategoryTable category="webpage_loaders" />

## PDFs

The below document loaders allow you to load PDF documents.

See this guide for a starting point: [How to: load PDF files](/docs/how_to/document_loader_pdf).

<CategoryTable category="pdf_loaders" />

## Cloud Providers

The below document loaders allow you to load documents from your favorite cloud providers.

<CategoryTable category="cloud_provider_loaders"/>

## Social Platforms

The below document loaders allow you to load documents from differnt social media platforms.

<CategoryTable category="social_loaders"/>

## Messaging Services

The below document loaders allow you to load data from different messaging platforms.

<CategoryTable category="messaging_loaders"/>

## Productivity tools

The below document loaders allow you to load data from commonly used productivity tools.

<CategoryTable category="productivity_loaders"/>

## Common File Types

The below document loaders allow you to load data from common data formats.

<CategoryTable category="common_loaders" />


## All document loaders

<IndexTable />
