libs/text-splitters/README.md, before:

# 🦜✂️ LangChain Text Splitters

[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/langchain-text-splitters?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/langchain-text-splitters)](https://pypistats.org/packages/langchain-text-splitters)

## Quick Install

```bash
pip install langchain-text-splitters
```

## What is it?

LangChain Text Splitters contains utilities for splitting into chunks a wide variety of text documents.

For full documentation see the [API reference](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/text_splitters/index.html)
and the [Text Splitters](https://python.langchain.com/docs/how_to/#text-splitters) module in the main docs.

## 📕 Releases & Versioning

Minor version increases will occur for:

- Breaking changes for any public interfaces NOT marked `beta`

Patch version increases will occur for:

- Bug fixes
- New features
- Any changes to private interfaces
- Any changes to `beta` features

## 💁 Contributing

As an open-source project in a rapidly developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether it be in the form of a new feature, improved infrastructure, or better documentation.

For detailed information on how to contribute, see the [Contributing Guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing).

Commit message:

docs: update package READMEs (WIP)

libs/text-splitters/README.md, after:

# 🦜✂️ LangChain Text Splitters

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/langchain-text-splitters?label=%20)](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-text-splitters/#history)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/langchain-text-splitters)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/langchain-text-splitters)](https://pypistats.org/packages/langchain-text-splitters)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/langchainai.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40LangChainAI)](https://twitter.com/langchainai)

Looking for the JS/TS version? Check out [LangChain.js](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchainjs).

## Quick Install

```bash
pip install langchain-text-splitters
```

## 🤔 What is this?

LangChain Text Splitters contains utilities for splitting into chunks a wide variety of text documents.

## 📖 Documentation

For full documentation, see the [API reference](https://reference.langchain.com/python/langchain).

## 📕 Releases & Versioning

See our [Releases](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/release-policy) and [Versioning](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/versioning) policies.

We encourage pinning your version to a specific version in order to avoid breaking your CI when we publish new tests. We recommend upgrading to the latest version periodically to make sure you have the latest tests.

Not pinning your version will ensure you always have the latest tests, but it may also break your CI if we introduce tests that your integration doesn't pass.

## 💁 Contributing

As an open-source project in a rapidly developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether it be in the form of a new feature, improved infrastructure, or better documentation.

For detailed information on how to contribute, see the [Contributing Guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/overview).
